
---
- the cost value must be an Integer.
  If something less that an Integer is calculated, OSPF rounds up to the nearest Integer.
  Therefore, the OSPF cost assigned to a Gigabit Ethernet Interface with the default reference bandwidth of 100,000,000 bps would equal 1, because the nearest Integer for 0.1 is 0 instead of 1.
	  **Cost = 100,000,000 bps / 1,000,000,000 = 1**
- For this reason, all interfaces faster than Fast Ethernet will have the same cost value of 1 as a Fast Ethernet Interface.
- To assist OSPF in making the correct path determination, the reference bandwidth must be changed to a higher value to accommodate Networks with links Faster than 100 Mbps.
- Changing the reference bandwidth does not actually affect the bandwidth capacity on the link; rather, it simply affects the calculation used to determine the metric.
- To adjust the reference bandwidth, use the `auto-cost reference-bandwidth Mbps` router configuration command.
  - This command must be configured on every router in the OSPF domain.
  - <mark class="hltr-yellow">Notice</mark> in the command that the value is expressed in Mbps; therefore, to adjust the costs for Gigabit Ethernet, use the command auto-cost reference-bandwidth 1000. For 10 Gigabit Ethernet, use the command auto-cost reference-bandwidth 10000.
  - To return to the default reference bandwidth, use the auto-cost reference-bandwidth 100 command.
- Another option is to change the cost on one specific interface using the `ip ospf cost` cost command.