
---
Before configuring SSH, the switch must be minimally configured with a unique hostname and the correct
network connectivity settings.

- <mark class="hltr-blue">Step 1:</mark> Verify SSH support - Use the `show ip ssh` command to verify that the switch supports SSH. If the switch is not running an IOS that supports cryptographic features, this command is unrecognized.

- <mark class="hltr-blue">Step 2:</mark> Configure the IP domain - Configure the IP domain name of the network using the `ip domain-name domain- name` global configuration mode command.

- <mark class="hltr-blue">Step 3:</mark> Generate RSA key pairs - Generating an RSA key pair automatically enables SSH. Use the `crypto key generate rsa` global configuration mode command to enable the SSH server on the switch and generate an RSA key pair.
  
<mark class="hltr-yellow">Note:</mark> To delete the RSA key pair, use the `crypto key zeroize rsa` global configuration mode command. After the RSA key
pair is deleted, the SSH server is automatically disabled.

- <mark class="hltr-blue">Step 4:</mark> Configure user authentication - The SSH server can authenticate users locally or using an authentication server. To use the local authentication method, create a username and password pair using the `username username secret password` global configuration mode command.
  
- <mark class="hltr-blue">Step 5:</mark> Configure the vty lines - Enable the SSH protocol on the vty lines by using the `transport input ssh line` configuration mode command. Use the `line vty` global configuration mode command and then the `login local line` configuration mode command to require local authentication for SSH connections from the local username database.
  
- <mark class="hltr-blue">Step 6:</mark> Enable SSH version 2 - By default, SSH supports both versions 1 and 2. When supporting both versions, this is shown in the show ip ssh output as supporting version 2. Enable SSH version using the `ip ssh version 2` global configuration command.