---
tags:
  - Sub-Module
---

---
#### Input Errors:
is the sum of all errors in datagrams that were received on the interface being examined.

This includes Runts, Giants, CRC, No Buffer, Frame, Overrun, and Ignored Counts.

The reported input errors from the `show interfaces` command include the following:

- <mark class="hltr-blue">Runt Frames:</mark>
  Ethernet Frames that are shorter than the <mark class="hltr-pink">64-Byte</mark> <mark class="hltr-orange">minimum</mark> allowed length are called <mark class="hltr-orange">Runts</mark>.
  Malfunctioning NICs are the usual cause of excessive <mark class="hltr-blue">Runt Frames</mark>, but they can also be caused by collisions.
  
- <mark class="hltr-blue">Giants:</mark>
  Ethernet Frames that are <mark class="hltr-orange">larger</mark> than the <mark class="hltr-orange">maximum</mark> allowed size are called <mark class="hltr-blue">Giants</mark>.

- <mark class="hltr-blue">CRC Errors:</mark>
  On Ethernet and Serial Interfaces, CRC Errors usually indicate a <mark class="hltr-orange">Media</mark> or <mark class="hltr-orange">Cable Error</mark>.
  Common <mark class="hltr-pink">causes</mark> include <mark class="hltr-orange">Electrical Interference</mark>, <mark class="hltr-orange">Loose</mark> or <mark class="hltr-orange">Damaged Connections</mark>, or <mark class="hltr-orange">Incorrect Cabling</mark>.
  If you see <mark class="hltr-yellow">many CRC Errors</mark>, there is too much <mark class="hltr-cyan">Noise</mark> on the link and you should inspect the cable.
  You should also search for and eliminate Noise Sources.

#### Output Errors:
Is the sum of all errors that prevented the final transmission of Datagrams out the interface that is being examined.

The reported Output Errors from the `show interfaces` command include the Following:

- <mark class="hltr-blue">Collisions:</mark>
  Collisions in Half-Duplex operations are normal.
  However, you should never see collisions on the interface configured for Full-Duplex communication.

- <mark class="hltr-blue">Late Collisions:</mark>
  A late collision refers to a collision refers to a collision that <mark class="hltr-orange">occurs</mark> **after** <mark class="hltr-cyan">512 bits</mark> of the Frame have Been Transmitted.
  <mark class="hltr-yellow">Excessive Cable Lengths</mark> are the most common cause of Late Collisions.
  Another common cause is <mark class="hltr-yellow">Duplex Misconfiguration</mark>.